Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
a programming language is a language that a program tell the computer what to do

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
JDK includes jdk and jre. JDK is the java development kit, while JRE is the java runtime environment.

JDK components are:
    1. Java compiler- compiles java lanaguage code into bytecode files
    2. java interpreter- is used to interpret the .java files which jave been compiled
    3. java disassembler- disassembly  tool that disassembles java files
    4. java header file generator- generates the c header and source files needed to implement methods and references object variables from source code.
    5. java documentation- documents Java source files, HTML pages defining the public/protected/nested classes, interfaces, constructors, methods, and fields
    6. java debugger- command line debugger for java, inspect and debugs java virtual machine
    7. java applet viewer- views java applets

What is IDE?
IDE is integrated development environment where you write code and compile programs. Has text editors/interpreters/compilers

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, Intellij and many more

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Create a .java file with the source code

what is class?
Class is a framework/blueprint for objects to be created of class type

What is object?
object is an instance of class

What is the entry point of an application?
Main()

Why main is static?
Main is static so JVM can call it without an object of the method existing.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object class is the superclass of all class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is used by the operating system/computer to locate java/java libraries while classpath is used by compiler to run classes

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Abstract class can never be instantiated and contains abstract methods.
Abstract classes are models for other classes to implement.
Interfaces contain method models and constant variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No you cannot. You implement interface methods and extend abstract classes and create a concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
Determine who is allowed to access methods/data. Can be public or private,

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-oriented programming. You program based on objects, which are classes.

JAVA feature is
encapsulation- data hiding,
inheritance- inherit from parent/super class,
abstraction- use abstract classes to extend and create concrete classes,
polymorphism- child class refers to parent class &
  method overload(same siganature different outputs) overriding (same body, same siganture, but different body)

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Package is namespace for related classes/interface.
Packages imported by default is noname package, java langauage package and current file package.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application program interface provides programmers with tools/protocols/access needed to build software
Scanner
Buffer Reader
String
File Reader
Serilizeable
Map
System Random
iterator

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No, because need for simplicity and java will confuse which parent class method to use.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is when a method uses different parameters, happens when more or less arguments are used during compile time

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exceptions are declared events, and you can use exception handling to stop program using Try and Catch

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static is a keyword, it denotes that you can access method/variable without creating object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final keyword, is a restriction that makes sure you cannot change value/override method

What is final, finally and finalize?
final keyword cannot change value/override. (Keyword)
finally used in blocks (used in try catch block) to execute code and make system messages.(Block)
finalize- called when garbage collection occurs, when no references made to object (Method)

What is a constructor ?
constructor is used to create instance of a class, it intializes the object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
YES

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
this, implicitly calls self

What is "this" keyword in java ?
represents instance of current class

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super calls parent class, used to access methods

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
java is platform independent, can run on many systems/OSes/hardware

What version of java are you using?
JDK 10/8

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is the development kit
JVM is a virtual machine

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is a virtual machine and JRE is the java runtime environment.

What is compile time and run time?
compile time is when your coded is being compiled from .java to .class,
run time is when you execute file in JVM

What is heap?
heap is memory area for objects and arrays, during runtime.

How java manage it's memory?
variables in stack, objects in heap, When reference variable is destroyed java automatically garbage collects

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is a class,
string buffer and string builder are mutable can change values.

What is Singleton class?
Singleton classes are class that exist for a specific purpose, limit object to one instance. (keeping private constructors)

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
turn object into sequence of bytes sent in streams,
deserialization is the reverse process

when to use transient variable in java?
it helps not to serialize the line

Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loop check exit condition then run/can be infinite loop,
do..while is run then check exit condition is achieved.

What is Enum?
Enum is enumerated type.

What is Iterator?
Iterator is a variable used to count

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
integer takes more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Strings are Immutable for security

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Calling one constructor from inside another constructor with respect to

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial is single thread,
Parallel is multi threaded

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time,

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Objects stored in heap for runtime,
dereferenced objects are removed from heap during garbage collection
garabage collection frees up space

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, it is an automatic process.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap space is larger than stack memory.
Heap stores objects, stack stores variables and call stack.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Code that inspects other code,
it is useful because it allows you to get information on your interfaces/fields/methods

what is multithreading in java?
process of running multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
synchronization in java is the ability to control multiple threads on shared resources

What is Framework?
frameworks are abstract programming classes that developers can extend or use to easily develop software

What are the testing Framework available in java?
testNG, and jUnit

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
jUnit uses object oreinted testing,
testNG use dependency testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
finish to start
start to start
finish to finish
start to finish

what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection is when objects pass in dependencies externally,

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding references are done during compiler time
dynamic binding references are done during runtime.